# AIML_Project

Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) is one of the greatest inventions in the history of medical science. It uses a strong magnetic field and radio waves to create detailed images of the organs and tissues within the body. To get these images, a patient is exposed to magnetic and radiofrequency waves sent by an MRI machine. The presence of this strong magnetic field forces protons in the human body to align with the field, after which comes the radiofrequency current in the picture, which then is pulsed through patients stimulating protons’ spin out of equilibrium state. As soon as this state is achieved and when the magnetic field is turned off, the time taken by the protons, the energy emitted changes on change of environment and chemical composition of the atoms in the body. This in turn is sent to a computer and thus converted into images using mathematical formulations. 

For an MRI scan image, a patient is supposed to go inside the MRI machine (a large magnet with a tube-like structure) and stay still (so that the image doesn’t get blurred) until the whole process lasts for some good 30-40 minutes collecting the signals and composing the required images. Before the scan usually contrast agents (containing Gadolinium) are given to the subject using IV so as to make the process of protons re-alignment a bit faster and to get a bright image.

To this date, researchers continue to refine MRI methods to enhance and improve medical treatments and research and which thus continues to revolutionize medicine.
